Manasseh was 12 years old when he became
king and he reigned 55 years in
Jerusalem but he did evil in the sight
of the Lord according to the
abominations of the nations whom the
Lord had cast out before the children of
Israel for he rebuilt the high places
which has a car his father had broken
down he raised up altars for the bales
and made wooden images and he worshiped
all the hosts of heaven and served them
he also built altars in the house of the
Lord
which the Lord had said in Jerusalem
shall my name be forever and he built
altars for all the hosts of heaven in
the two courts of the house of the Lord
also he caused his sons to pass through
the fire in the valley of the son of
Hinnom he practiced soothsaying used
witchcraft and sorcery and consulted
mediums and spiritists he did much evil
in the sight of the Lord to provoke him
to anger he even set a carved image the
idol which he had made in the house of
God of which God had said to David into
Solomon his son in this house and in
Jerusalem which I have chosen out of all
the tribes of Israel I will put my name
forever and I will not again remove the
foot of Israel from the land which I
have appointed for your fathers only if
they are careful to do all that I have
commanded them according to the whole
law and the statutes and the ordinances
by the hand of Moses so Manasseh seduced
Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem
to do more evil than the nations whom
the Lord had destroyed before the
children of Israel
and the Lord spoke to Manasseh and his
people but it would not listen therefore
the Lord brought upon them the captains
of the army of the king of Assyria who
took Manasseh with hooks bound him with
bronze fetters and carried him off to
Babylon now when he was in affliction he
implored the Lord his God and humbled
himself greatly before the god of his
father's and prayed to him and he
received his entreaty heard his
supplication and brought him back to
Jerusalem into his kingdom then Manasseh
knew that the Lord was God after this he
built a wall outside the City of David
on the west side of Gihon in the valley
as far as the entrance of the fish gate
and it enclosed oho and he raised it to
a very great height then he put military
captains in all the fortified cities of
Judah he took away the foreign guards
and the idol from the house of the Lord
and all the altars that he had built in
the Mount of the house of the Lord and
in Jerusalem
and he cast them out of the city he also
repaired the altar of the Lord
sacrificed peace offerings and thanked
offerings on it and commanded Judah to
serve the Lord God of Israel
nevertheless the people still sacrificed
on the high places but only to the Lord
their God now the rest of the acts of
Manasseh his prayer to his God and the
words of the seers who spoke to him in
the name of the Lord God of Israel
indeed they are written in the book of
the kings of Israel also his prayer and
how God received his entreaty and all
his sin and trespass and the sites where
he built high places and set up wooden
images and carved images before he was
humbled indeed they are written among
the sayings of Isaiah so Manasseh rested
with his father's and they buried him in
his own house then his son Ammon reigned
in his place Ammon was 22 years old when
he became King and he reigned two years
in Jerusalem but he did evil in the
sight of the Lord as his father Manasseh
had done for Imani sacrificed to all the
carved images which his father Manasseh
had made and served them and he did not
humble himself before the Lord as his
father Manasseh had humbled himself but
Ammon trespassed more and more
then his servants conspired against him
and killed him in his own house but the
people of the land executed all those
who had conspired against King Allen
then the people of the land made his son
Josiah King in his place